i need some help grounding myself. I need some reassurance but in a realistic sense. I feel like everything is so extensional it is so hard to think optimistically about my actions because it feels like what I'm doing isn't enough or that i can try my best and have things work out for me but there will always be something that shoots me down. but that's how life is, life isn't perfect, and i don't have any control on these external factors that come into play, i have to be the one that controls the outcome, because in the end this is my life and i can decide how to go about it. however, i am only human, no human is perfect, we all make mistakes, i allow myself to make myself and i allow myself to keep continuing, but there comes a point where it is too much. where i feel too burnt out and tired. doesn't mean i want to stop or want to not do things anymore, it is in fact the opposite, i want to do so many things but i can't. i can only handle so much. there is a saying in life where you have to find a balance, i end up finding those balancing only briefly, and i always aim to gain that state. yet it is fleeting, there are so many external things in life that come into play that tip the scales, it gets too overwhelming and i end up neglecting a lot of things in my life in order to balance out or achieve certain goals, but in doing so i harm myself more from these neglects. i'm not purposely trying to harm myself, it just became a habit, second nature that i end up doing these things in moments of high stress or being overwhelmed by so many things. habits where i stay up at night and get less sleep or don't eat enough or don't workout or try to have fun in order to achieve a goal of passing a class or finishing an assignment or studying. it is hard to do everything. there is a light in the future something i look up to during these hard dark times, i see myself and can envision myself succeeding and i tell myself that it is okay that i neglect myself and that one day in the future it will be worth it and that i will be able to enjoy and have the time for myself. yet it is hard finding that light in the present, i have to try so hard to motivate and do things now during these moments. i look back though in the past and reflect and learn, i see how when i had less on my plate or wasn't as stressed out as i am now that i was able to take care of my health and have fun and enjoy things, but now it doesn't feel the same, and that comes from a lot of the added pressure that is happening this year.

Spring Break:

I just finished my winter quarter, and after finishing finals we get one week of break before the spring quarter. i honestly thought that after my last final i will have a movement and a sense of peace or time to rest and take care of myself and have fun, but those stops came to a halt as soon as i remembered that i am not free, i have a startup and projects that i am working on that don't let me rest because if i just end up resting for that entire spring break then i end up losing my progress and losing the time i could spend achieving thing for them, because once spring quarter starts i don't get that free time to plan and manage out my startup and projects as much. so i ended up planning 3-4 meetings this week, i had to finish reviewing and updated my PPA and filing it, and i also had jury duty which was my first time so i had no idea what to expect (and they say take a whole day off because usually that's how long it last) so as you can see i have multiple things i had to get done for the week. i had to prepare documents, research, send a bunch of emails and messages, and organize/ manage a lot of things (and my social battery is really low lately so it takes a lot for me to communicate with others or send messages because i end up overthinking and i end up getting drained from doing these social aspects). it didn't help that i ended up working late or lazing around too stressed and anxious to get stuff done that i would wake up late or when i wake up i had to force myself to do things. i even remember telling myself to spend a few mins working out or getting food or going outside to have fun or take care of yourself, but in the end i ended up not doing those things because my mind was too occupied in trying to finish all these things i had to do and was too stressed and worried about the outcome of not doing those things. it also didn't help that during finals week (last week) that i drank so much caffeine and was just relying on that to function, so i began having a lot of caffeine withdrawals at the end of my finals so my body was very exhausted and could only function if i drank caffeine; however, i knew that was bad so i took the initiative of not drinking any coffee or energy drinks so i can slowly get back to normal. but that ended up with me being lazy and tired and not having the energy to function as much, even though i wanted to do things my body and mind was exhausted which is why it was so hard to do things this week.

School:

One major thing that has beaten me up lately was failing a class for winter quarter. I failed a class fall quarter which i retook in the winter and i was put on academic notice which means that if i had less than a 2.0 quarter gpa in winter i would be on academic probation. this was a lot of pressure for me on winter quarter so i put so much effort in trying to pass that class i was retaking. however, in doing so i began neglecting my other classes. don't get me wrong, i was doing all the assignments and getting good grades on those and i would make sure to attend when necessary but there was one class i was neglecting the most, and i ended up failing each of the exams for it, and i still tried my best to study and prepare but i still ended up failing the final which meant i failed the class. I had so much going on though, i tell myself that it is okay because i have to understand the circumstances i was in and that failing the class is not a reflection of how smart i am. i acknowledge that i could've done better and i know i failed because i neglected the class, if i spent more time preparing and studying as much as i did with my other classes i could've past. but it really is a pain, i had my startup i was working on solo during the quarter and i was handling different projects on my own all while still trying to find time to study and get work done. in total i was taking 6 classes, it was a coding class, calculus class, two upper div bioengineering classes, and linear circuits class all in which were not easy whatsoever as you can imagine. i managed to pass all of them except for that one class, but the major problem that comes with that outcome is that now i can't graduate in the fall which was when i was predicted to. this class i failed is only offered in the winter, so even if i complete my degree with all my classes, i will have that one class i have to retake in winter pushing me back from graduating because of one sole class. and to make matters worse there is a perquisite for one of my classes i am taking in the spring that needs that class in order to take the course, so because i failed i'll be dropped from that class; however i am asking my advisor if i can still take it because it jeopardizes my graduation to spring 2027 and you are allowed to take the course with approval from the department. it just is another factor that sucks, cause if i don't end up getting that course approved then i would have to take it in spring 2027 so not only am i forced to retake the class i failed in winter, i am also forced to take that course in spring and that then holds me back from graduating an entire year! i'm done with school like i am exhausted and ready to just start working, i've been working essentially on so many others things literally with no pay! it's not like doing these projects, research, and startup stuff is making me an income in the moment, i am solely doing these things for experience and passion but it is very draining and i know there are so many other people in my major that aren't doing as much and are focusing with school to graduate, and i should've honestly done that, but in this job market it is so hard to get a position without experience because everyone graduating is getting a degree but it is the experience that makes you stand out. but even to get into the bioengineering jobs you need the degree so experience is not quite enough for that, so i am held back by this restriction which sucks so much.

there is also another fact that i am a transfer student coming into ucsd, and for a bioengineering major there is so many requirements, and hard courses you have to take to get the degree. if i stayed at ucr i would've graduated this year and graduated next quarter. like putting that perspective it really makes me sad thinking about how i could've graduated and the fact that i have my close friends graduating with the same degree and there's me being held back an entire year. yeah i know not to compare myself to others but it is something that is hard to ignore.

on the brighter side of things, transferring to ucsd has opened me up to so many opportunities and is a cultivating academic environment that i wouldn't have gotten staying at ucr. i wouldn't have been pushed to do so many of the things i am doing if i stayed at ucr, so i am happy i transferred. in doing so i was able to expand my startup so much and i was able to gain so many experiences that make me a better person now. and on the brighter things for spring quarter is that i got accepted to a ai bioengineering startup internship which is something i am passionate about and have experience doing, so cultivating and doing this internship will allow me to grow even more and network and secure a job possibly. so there are things to look forward with what i am doing and where things are turning up because of what i do.

but even if i think about the good, the bad is still present and it is something real that i can ignore or control in away i exactly want it to be. cause i can't control the outcome of this and still end up graduating fall, i will still end up having to retake the course in winter or possibly being held back to spring 2027. setting me back an entire year. and having that perspective is drastic, imagine being set back an entire year, having a year taken from you in doing things you didn't want to do, how that year could've been a better outcome. but yes i know rather than thinking this way think about how i can control that outcome and react to it and how i can try to take advantage and look at other opportunities in doing that. that's hard to do. there is also the fact that i got accepted to 2 master programs for fall and for next year which i was looking forward to. i was looking forward to attending JHU EP online getting my masters online while i find a job and work and expand my startup, there is so much potential from that future i envision because it is allowing me to break free from the shackles i am being held right now, where i am finally making an income and expanding my career and making the possibility of my success a reality. yet that was taken away from me, and i am utterly broken and sad that the chance to do that next year was taken solely from one class. the fact i have to retake 1 class and not be able to take it summer or even fall is so depressing and hard to move pass. i hate thinking about it but that is the reality, and it is hard to plan a way on what to do with this new future because i am focused on the present and trying to get all these things done.

Startup:

The startup I'm doing i did all myself, i was the one who researched it, the one engineering and doing all the technical things, i spent months teaching myself and attending lectures, practicing how to pitch to investors and other people. i spent all this time myself, i was the one who looked into the resources and navigated myself through everything and i had no mentor or support from anyone which was so hard and stressful. even attending the pitch session and lectors it is so hard not to compare and see how different i am compared to so many other people. all these other people had groups, a mentor, were already established, had someone who graduated already and is working in a hospital, doing research, or in industry. like compared to me i was a nobody, i am still an undergraduate i haven't really held myself in a professional position like getting my degree or saying that i worked in a hospital or in the medtech industry. so image how these people are when pitching how they have this confidence and support and how it is just me alone heading into this and having to force myself to be confident and pitch and to persevere even if it looks like i stand no chance or and not as qualified as so many other people. it is so hard doing this all alone, and i am still doing it alone, i have people come in my life saying that they'll help but don't even help or do the bare minimum and it is left to me to do everything, and it feels so invalidating when they try to take credit when i was the one that did all the heavy work. so imagine all of what i said right now and put this weight and what i'm doing with the school stuff.

Family:

It has also been excruciating this year commuting from home, my past 3 years of university i stayed at a dorm/ apartment and was able to focus on school and extracurriculars and study late at school and attend classes early and late with ease because of my living conditions. but this year my mom and dad were telling me how i should just stay home since i can just drive to school, but i did tell them that it would be harder for me to do what i did for those 3 year, even transferring to ucsd and staying at an apartment made it so much manageable to do my classes and attend things on campus. however, commuting is so hard, it is literally an hour drive or more to get to campus and it is 1-2 hours to drive back home, and imagine that with early classes and late classes, i am spending that time stressing and worrying about the drive and worrying about parking. i could spend 1-2hours studying, eating, getting more sleep, working out. those hours i spend wasted on commuting could've allowed me to do so many things cause essentially that's 2-4 hours of me getting stuff done. and god let me tell you how bad San Diego is with driving and parking, it is literally impossible to get a parking space and even if you do you have to pay an expensive amount and if you forget about a time limit or forget to pay or extend you can get cited for over $80-100, and it's already hard trying to find parking. i was left to resort to taking the trolley which means i drive close to the trolley and forced to wait for it and it takes time getting to the destination. like these are all factors i worry and have to think about which if i stayed at a dorm/ apartment didn't have to. i do reflect back and see how my living conditions really do impact my education on how i perform, cause in a way home is also a distraction, where i have my family and my mom talking to me and bothering me or that i have these external factors like my dog or my bed or the comfort of the space which makes me lazy, instead of the environment at school where i feel more forced/ focused, and that i don't have to worry about studying on campus or staying late because i can easily get back to my room.

it also doesn't help that my mom makes me feel worse about what i am doing. never has she supported my startup, my dad was the only one who did but he is so focused with work that he doesn't really spend time helping me or talking to me so i am always left with my mom. she is not a logical person, and i don't mean this to slander her but she does get very narcissistic, she is very emotional and when things don't go her way she gets angry or says things that don't make sense. she is also very racist and biased about a lot of things, usually being easily influenced with the media and what other people say. i am only saying these things to give context towards my feelings regarding what is happening right now especially me staying home. she even questions me and says why i spent so much time working and in my room when i am in peak exam season (like she wouldn't be saying these things and didn't do that for the 3 years of my uni experience which was took away a stress factor when studying). for the entire year i think she has been comparing me to my sister a bit because she is graduating spring quarter and expected me to be graduating. also for context my sister failed in uni where she was going to get kicked out from a private uni and transferred to a uni in new jersey that my dad went to but didn't like the school because it was too hard and transferred back to sdsu and she in total graduated in 5-6 years because of that and stacked up a lot of loans and all from that as well. so yeah she is finally graduating so i guess because of that there is a lot of thought about me graduating as well. she even applied for masters and is currently looking for a job; however she never heard back from any of the programs she applied to and hasn't heard back or gotten a job yet. and i guess in comparison she sees that i got into my masters program and i got into my internship and sees me as someone that is able to do it all. and honestly this has been a pattern with a lot of people in my life where they see me as someone successful and able to do everything when in fact there has been a major toll with me and i have been doing all these things with effort and all by myself without guidance, and it came a point where i would win awards in high school and even in uni that my parents don't care because they think that is just normal. i would always update my parents about what i am doing with external things but they don't care as much, i mean my dad gets excited and ask me about it but it's nothing of a shock. and my mom is always like "you're doing too much" and never fully understands me. that was a tangent, but the main thing was that because my sister didn't get into my masters and i did my mom in a sense was holding high standards for me since day one. my sister didn't get into the masters program at ucsd but i did, and my mom non stop has been nagging me about attending ucsd and i think a lot of it came because she saw my sister didn't get in and was like he has to. it doesn't make sense and like i said she is not very logical, i explained how i wanted to attend JHU and my dad was in full support but my mom was in full support of ucsd, and when i explained my logic of how JHU is online and allows me to grow my startup and start working she just didn't listen or understand me. and this is a pattern that has always happened. whenever i did a project or extracurricular she would always question me and not even try to understand why i am doing them. and to her she is very traditional mindset where she just thinks you have to go to college or become a doctor or you won't succeed, and i told her many times how the degree is not everything and how it is your passion and what you do outside your academics that makes you stand out and which is essential for how the present day is with jobs. so yeah i explain that to her but she begins arguing with me and telling me that she graduated and got a job (which is also where i am saying she doesn't think about the other person just herself).

there is obviously many stresses and factors that come into play, but the main thing i would mention is the fact about failing that class and being held back. there is also now this pressure and failure mindset within me because of the people i am surrounded by, and to me they wouldn't try to understand the difficulties or even know what happened underneath. and me failing is a let down, i literally got into my masters program and because of my failure now i can't even attend it and other people i was excited about and told and was looking forward to are now going to have pity on me and bed sad that i didn't rather than being empathetic and understanding my circumstances, and i hate to have this happen. i hate to get that reaction and just deal with a bunch of reminders from them telling me how i could've done this. like i can do all i can to try to move and and feel better but it's harder when the environment you're in doesn't let you. i can say it's okay, but i'll , and i'm not making that up she actually enjoys my downfall.

Personal (Health, Hobbies, Fun):

Then what about me, i stress so much on trying to achieve something and i try my best to do all these things for my future, but in the end i end up neglected a lot of myself. i end up neglecting my health and the things i do that i enjoy. i used to love art and exercising and working out my body and having this better mental. i used to socialize and hangout with my friends and text them often, but now i don't even socialize with people, i'm in my own little bubble, i don't even text my friends, maybe once a month or so, or they reach out to me, but i end up neglecting so much i neglect them and end up losing them in the process. like i acknowledge and see how much i am neglecting but i can't just start neglecting the work i am doing as well. i know i need to find that right balance, but it feels impossible to do that with everything going on. and i know the best way around that is lightening my load, but if i end up stopping myself from doing these things i jeopardize this path i am setting up. and i guess thats why i am having a hard time right now is because i was excited about this future where i am freed from the shackles of school and can finally allow myself these personal things, where i am no longer stressing about getting my degree and i have now start focusing on my own life. because in reality my goal really isn't the degree it is what's after the degree, i do want to be a bioengineer and work my way in the industry and establish myself but the degree is not significant to me but it is a milestone and a shackle that restricts me from moving forward so how i feel right now is heavily weighted upon that, and why it feels so extensional is because that is my future and think about it through the context i gave, this person held back by these chains only seeing this light as hope and finally reaching the light and breaking free from those chains will allow me to spread my wings and accomplish so much and finally be able to live. i know there will be many more challenges up ahead but i hope this is making sense.

but in the end I have to be the one telling myself that it is okay, i have to be the one reassuring myself and having confidence in my action, i have to be the one that allows myself to enjoy things even the little things. i have to do this myself because no matter how many times people tell me everything is okay even if you tell me everything is fine, i have to be the one to believe it, i have to allow myself to live, not neglecting my mind and body because if feel like that's necessary or that i'm not enough.